# K&S React: TRUMP LAUNCHES REGIME CHANGE IRAN WAR

**Source:** breaking-points
**URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KnroM-W76iw
**Published:** Unknown

---

Hello everybody. Uh unfortunately we're having to join you this Saturday morning. Donald Trump has launched a major regime change war with Iran. This appears to be the full Monty Crystal. We have the video that the president released at some 2:00 a.m. Eastern time uh where he declared this war. Let's take a listen to some of the justification. A short time ago, the United States military began major combat operations in Iran. Our objective is to defend the American people by eliminating eminent threats from the Iranian regime, a vicious group of very hard, terrible people. Its menacing activities directly endanger the United States, our troops, our bases overseas, and our allies throughout the world. For 47 years, the Iranian regime has chanted death to America and waged an unending campaign of bloodshed and mass murder, targeting the United States, our troops, and the innocent people in many, many countries. Among the regime's very first acts was to back a violent takeover of the US embassy in Tran, holding dozens of American hostages for 444 days. In 1983, Iran's proxies carried out the Marine barracks bombing in Beirut that killed 241 American military personnel. In 2000, they knew and were probably involved with the attack on the USS Cole. Many died. Iranian forces killed and maimed hundreds of American service members in Iraq. The regime's proxies have continued to launch countless attacks against American forces. >> Okay, I think we can come out in recent Yeah, we're going way back with this one. >> I was going to say a little bit >> using the embassy to uh yeah, to justify this. Insane, >> right? Uh so I think the most significant part of that statement was obviously even though they're calling this a preemptive strike uh it is a you know not actually a preemptive strike. They're using a long historical justification saying this is a 47year war. This is a war explicitly now declared as regime change. But I think that the most significant part of the president's statement was the open acknowledgment that American lives are at risk and they may be lost as a result of this. I know that we have a clip. It's a little bit later on in that speech. It's the full 8 minutes, so we're not going to play it all for you. >> Seeks to kill. The lives of courageous American heroes may be lost and we may have casualties. That often happens in war, but we're doing this not for now. We're doing this for the future. And it is a noble mission. We pray for every service member as they selflessly risk their lives to ensure that Americans and our children will never be threatened by a nuclear armed Iran. Right. And so uh this is an open declaration of a regime change war. Crystal, uh, do we have that statement, uh, from this morning around 4:00 a.m. a Washington Post reporter was able to reach President Trump by phone where he didn't even, uh, make any pretense about the nuclear program, about the missile program, uh, even about regional proxies. He said in a brief phone call, his main concern is freedom for the Iranian people, and the US is working with Iran to make a place that is safe. All I want is freedom for the people. This is 2005 George W. Bush inaugural. Uh obviously, you know, you and I are still absorbing the news, but it's catastrophic already. We see massive uh retaliatory strikes across the entire region. It's a full-blown regional war. And the war is only lasted for 6 hours now or so. And it's a catastrophe, I think, strategically for the United States, for the Iranian people, and for the American people, for everybody really who lives in the region. >> Yeah. and a direct, you know, I mean, in direct contravention of Trump's positioning on the campaign as, oh, I'm going to be the peace candidate and there was all kinds of, oh, don't vote for Kala, you'll send your sons to war. And now you literally have him out here basically saying, yeah, your um sons and daughters may die for Israel because let's be real about who really wants this war, and it's Israel. I they've been pushing for decades at this point and uh found an easy mark here with Trump in spite of the fact that his own top military advisers were saying this could go very poorly for the US. We think that this is a bad idea that there is not some limited strike option here that Iran because they you know of course obviously see this as ex existential they're going to throw everything that they have to be able to preserve their own lives and their own government. So, this is not a Venezuela, you know, quick in, quick out, grab a leader and and done. Not that I think that that's really the end of the story with Venezuela, but that's how they perceive it at this point. This does not look like it's going to be another 12-day war where, again, relatively limited in terms of, hey, we're going to take these specific nuclear sites and move on. No, this is a farreaching already regional war where the justifications offered in that, you know, 8-minute speech and then talking to reporters afterwards have ranged from everything to the nuclear program, the missiles, the revolution itself, the 1979, you know, embassy uh kidnapping of Americans in the embassy, the long litany of things that he listed out there to, hey, we just want human rights and freedom for the Iranian Ian people and we have a new justification which is he's claiming that the Iranians interfered in the election. So we can throw you know a little bit of like protextual election interference and use that be able to use that claim later on to uh mess with the 2026 elections here as well which appears to be part of the plot >> which is so it's yeah >> I mean it's there's so many layers of dystopia here that it's hard to wrap your head around. I do want to just set a little bit more of the context here for people who, you know, to thinking about how we got to this place because once again, you had Trump posturing like we're going through this diplomatic process. We had these meetings in Geneva this week. The um Omanis came out and said the Iranians offered a deal that went far beyond the JCPOA. That was the Obama era nuclear deal. They offered, you know, these concessions that went way beyond what Obama was able to achieve, thinking that could potentially give Trump an out to say, you know what, I did so much better than Barack Obama could never look at me, the art of the deal, and give himself an out. But what we're hearing from Israeli officials is that once again, this diplomacy was just a ruse. that the um this was planned months ago. The date was set weeks ago and in fact all of this was just a dodge to wait until the time of their choosing. So a war of choice. Anyone you hear out there saying preemptive strike blah blah blah. you should kindly disregard everything they have to say after this because this is an aggressive illegal war of choice from this president and the Israelis and there will be massive like repercussions that we cannot even imagine right now that play out for years and decades to come. >> Yes, the uh strikes are now planned for many many days uh to continue. It appears initially this morning uh we're hearing from the US military there will be some rolling types of strikes, one to two days of strikes, reassessment for battle damage, one to two days of strikes. Obviously, the enemy also gets a vote and they are having their vote right now. Do we want to go ahead and put the list of countries that Iran has bombed already after uh the initial strikes that happened on Thrron early 2 a.m. uh our time, so middle of the day for all of them. Uh the list I believe, yeah, here we have it. We have a number uh in Bahrain. We have a number in Kuwait, Abu Dhabi, Qatar, Jordan. Uh their videos coming out are unbelievable already to anybody who has visited or lived in the region. The most striking is exactly the one that you can see there on the screen. That was uh where the fifth fleet actually is. Uh Crystal, can we put the US soldier reacting? I mean, you know, these are not scenes that you really ever would want to see. The next one that we're about to show you is an American, presumably an American service member or some American who is stationed in Bahrain. And you can actually hear him react live as a Iranian suicide shot drone makes direct contact with a radar installation in Manama. Can we Why don't we make that video for us? Yeah. And then we CAN SEE. >> OH [ __ ] OH [ __ ] OH [ __ ] OH. Oh [ __ ] Oh [ __ ] Oh my god. Oh, dude. [ __ ] me. A [ __ ] missile actually got through. Oh, there's more. I got to get the [ __ ] out of here. >> So, you could see that was for an Iranian suicide drone. Uh, he mistook that as a missile. There's other videos actually showing the direct impact. These are scenes that anybody familiar with the battlefield in Ukraine uh will see. So they have an asymmetric capability already. Uh many of their missiles have been intercepted in the Gulf. We don't have any confirmed American casualties right now. But to zoom out a little bit more, I can confirm the Iranians delivered a message on letter specifically to Jared Kushner and to Steve Wickoff saying that they will not pursue a nuclear weapon. The Omani foreign minister was actually on television yesterday confirming exactly what you said that they offered to give up their entire enriched uranium stockpile, provide IAEA inspectors into the country and basically to end this entire charade. But if you've been watching our program, I do think it's important that you all know the goalposts have all moved on behalf of the Israelis. Originally, it was supposed to about be about the nuclear weapon. I also I finally have some more context for Trump saying that the Iranians won't say the magic words about how they won't pursue a nuclear weapon. He believes that any enrichment whatsoever even for like medical isotopes is itself a declaration of a nuclear weapon. So just so you all understand where that term came from. I also do think it's important now to see that diplomacy under this administration can never be trusted. I mean we all knew that it was kind of a joke. Of course, uh, the Jared Kushner and Steve Wickoff negotiations. The JCPOA came across the finish line after two and a half years of the most sophisticated experts in the US government on nuclear issues. It was just two real estate guys, one of whom is the son-in-law of the president. They didn't even really know what they were doing. It was all pretextual, right? Exactly. It was all pretextual for a planned operation that is now here. I also think it's very important to underscore that what the administration has done by doing the full monty of regime change. There's no offramp from here. The Iranians are fighting for their survival. There has been no offer. They are saying freedom overthrow. We have reports already this morning that Ayatollah Hamei was actually targeted by the United States and Israel in a targeted assassination. We don't yet know what the result of that is, whether he is alive or dead. many senior members of the IRGC, the Iranian defense minister and others, Iranian state media saying that they have been killed. Uh, and you know, if you've been watching our coverage, they are prepared for this. They knew that some 90% of their command and control was going to get decimated. And they also clearly had pre-approved strike packages across the entire region. The reason that they're doing that is they know that this is now a war of this is an existential thing for the regime. you have to go all out, try to turn it into a regional war as much of a nightmare for the United States. I also think it's important, you know, to even take it back as you said. Um, you know, it's not exactly political times right now when so many lives are at stake, but this is the most profound betrayal, I think, of any president uh from the campaign to the actions in his administration and in particular the vice president and many of the other people, the so-called anti-war movement. These are people who directly looked Americans in the face. Tulsi Gabbard, I think we should add to that list. Who said Steven Miller, they said, "Kla will send your sons to war. Donald Trump is a candidate of peace." Uh, that was always a little bit ridiculous because we knew that he was going to be pro Iran, but or sorry, pro- Israel, but I don't think anybody anybody thought a full-blown war of choice on the Iranian on the Iranian regime was ever in the cards. And you know, I I I look, we'll ruminate on that, I think, for many years to come and exactly how that happened. And I guess now is not exactly the time. But I I'm so disgusted uh with this administration, with so many of the people who I knew personally who looked me in the face over many years, told us that this was things they believed. Jokes on me uh for believing them. And I also uh I I'm really terrified about where this brings us. Not just in terms of the region. Think about where we are. This country is now at war with Iran, embroiled in a full-blown regional conflict with no congressional authorization, no debate. How many times did we say over the last preceding years? 90% of Americans had no idea any of this was happening. Carrier strike groups that were on there were there. Many of them are waking up and all they have is a Twitter video released by the president at 2 a.m. As of right now, the president is not scheduled to make any public remarks. That is how much contempt that they have for all of us is that they don't have to explain their actions. They can launch this war completely of choice. Our Congress is a joke absent for Roana. Everybody in the Democrat and the Republican party who you know even remotely is upset about this is like but what about the process? Will anybody think of the process and of the strategic end? There's no strategic endgame. Trump said it. It's about regime change. uh how we avoid getting into a broader conflict. I have no idea. I truly have no idea how it is >> because from the beginning if you declare that the goal of the mission is for the government to collapse and by the way Voice of America, Persia is on up on air telling people to rise up against the regime and you know throw off the yoke of their oppression blah blah blah. So if you don't achieve that then you've failed. And do you think that this president is just going to walk away and take that L? Of course he's not. So look, I mean, I I I am always nervous when I bring up the Israeli equation here simply because I do not want to deny this president any agency, right? These are his decisions. He is fully and completely responsible for them. Netanyahu has successfully achieved and ens snared this president in the trap that he has been trying to ensnare the uh you know American people and the United States of America in for decades. It's happened. It's done. The trap is now closed because Trump has said the end goal is for this government to fall. So what is that going to mean going forward? How are we going to achieve that? because it is highly unlikely that you're going to be able to achieve it simply with air strikes where we can, you know, fly over, drop some bombs, and get out and uh, you know, and not actually be on the ground. That is the sort of thing that would require an actual ground invasion. Because think about it, this government, yes, they've been weakened by our economic sanctions, economic warfare. Yes, they've been weakened by the 12-day war. Yes, they're weakened by the fact that there is a significant amount of the population that is very unhappy with them, but they have also survived for damn near 50 years with the US wanting them gone and wanting them dead the entire time. So, do not think that this is just going to be some quick and easy thing where we can drop a few bombs and they're going to say, "Oh, you're right. We're going to go and you know, glorious freedom will ultimately reign." Let me put um you know this statement from the Iranians up here just to get a sense of you know what they're saying. This is Sardar Jabari, adviser to the commander-in-chief of the IRGC. He says Trump should understand this clearly. What we launched today were our last stock missiles. What comes next are systems and weapons he has never seen before. Now this may be bluster. We don't know. But clearly already and this was something we talked about and we anticipated. They are hitting back much harder than we have ever seen before with the range of targets that they are striking with the threats to close down the straight of Hormuz which would have huge huge economic reverberations. You already have a number of um shipping companies suspending any sort of travel in the region. Of course, air travel is shut down in the region as well. So we are already at fullcale regional war with and very hard to see how what the offramp is what that would look like because again you know this president is not going to walk away with his tail between his legs and say oops you know we didn't accomplish the goal but you know we'll live to fight another day >> even if we wanted to how can we do so when we have the Israelis who are on our right shoulder who are always willing to up the ante they will never allow us out of this that's why they tried to target the Iranian Ayatollah on day one. This is now a war of absolute declaration on the regime. They will now have to fight to the death if they ever want to live to see another day. And many of the top leadership, it appears, has already been wiped out. Uh again, as we noted at the beginning, it I believe that many planned for this. I think that the IRGC and others were fully aware that this was going to happen and that they are now going to collapse as we all found out in Iraq. Taking out the very top echelon, the ba'ists, the people who run the country can often result in a much more strategically bad situation. It unleashes chaos. Lower level IRGC folks, anybody with a monopoly on the use of force, access to weapons, you are now in charge of your own thief, of your own survival, there will be a full-blown conflict, I think, inside of the country, regardless of whether the United States is evil, even even able to come in or not. Uh again actually looking just learning this morning the president doesn't appear uh to be uh to be uh speaking again to the American people. I cannot actually believe it uh that this is happening. We also by the way have our fail son who is uh ready and able. Can we put Raza Palvy's statement up here on the screen? Razas Palvi uh the son of the deposed sha of Iran is now openly calling not only just for regime change but for people rising up. His statements are being broadcast by Voice of America and others into the country in Farsy. So this is a direct US authorized coup to try and restore some sort of the monarchy. We'll see if it does ever get there. But that is, you know, I mean, this is disastrous. This is Iraq uh 2.0 in many ways except without the US boots that are on the ground. Um we don't obviously want to see that and avoid it. However, even if we do avoid it, then the country is very likely on a Libya trajectory right now and in particular to turn itself into an Israeli rump state uh which will long be targeted. Their goal is a full-blown civil war inside the country. They don't care about uh the refugee crisis because none of them will come to them. They'll stick it on the Arabs and they'll stick it on Europe. Europeans, by the way, appear broadly supportive so far of a lot of these strikes. Mark Carney, Mr. New Global Order, Mr. New Global Order is supportive of this just to show you all uh how full of [ __ ] so many of these people are. I'll give Mcronone his credit. Yeah, go ahead. >> Yeah. Well, I just wanted to point out this statement that I have up from uh JD Vance because I think this may turn out to be a rather infamous statement that he made yesterday. I think we have to avoid overlearning the lessons of the past. Just because one president screwed up a military conflict doesn't mean we can never engage in military conflict again. That's when I knew we were done. And >> yeah, and this is, you know, this is Mr. He positioned himself like he was Mr. Anti-war and now he's saying the Iraq war that was just a blip. We shouldn't have we shouldn't overlearn the mistakes from that. And to your point about Tulsi Gabbard, you know, she had previously what she would say is the going to war with Iran will make Iraq look like a cakewalk. That was her previous positioning and now here we are um going launching a major war with Iran and not even some pretext of like it's limited strikes. No, we are going for the whole thing. >> Yeah. What do you I mean what is there to even say about people like this? It's it's the most profound lie to the American people. Man, I I can't even think of a of a similar example. And look, you know, maybe we'll we'll help them pay for it a little bit later, but in the interim, as we all know, we are at their mercy. And what we are now watching is a full-blown regime change. John Bolton, Mark Levvin, many others who are doing back flips. Uh I can we can Yeah. Lindsey Graham, I mean, my god. I mean it is it is really noteworthy in so far as the war has gone now is that all not only was diplomacy a ruse but even the limited strike package was not was a ruse because it presumed negotiation this is fully the Israeli wet dream of what's happened and just to prove it to you can we put that CNN article up there about I couldn't even believe that this is real I checked it's real this is a real article that ran on CNN.com from Jerusalem and they are talking about the significance of this day launching this attack from the book of Deuteronom Deuteronomy and AMC. Uh so like this is the reality. This is remember >> and this is the about to be Ellisonowned CNN by the way. So they're just, you know, pre-omplying with, not that CNN was ever that great to start with, but pre-omplying with the new extreme Zionist regime that's about to be potentially led by Barry Weiss. >> These are the people who are we are at the mercy of the timing of the USIsraeli attack bears symbolic meaning in Judaism. Ahead of the upcoming holiday of Purum, worshippers read the specific portion from the Old Testament known as Zakur. The passage from the book of Deuteronomy commands the ancient Israelites to remember an unprovoked attack by the nation of Amalecch and to eradicate the memory of Amalcch once the Israelites are settled in their land. The passage is read publicly before Purum to fulfill the mitzvah of remembering Amalcch as Israel's archetypal enemy. This and because if you combine this with the fact that the date was already pre-planned some year like months ago. Well, I mean, you think American war planners picked the date to coincide with the book of Deuteronomy and Amalcch? I mean, this is insanity. This also combines >> the we talk about the theocracy of Iran posing such a risk and making them so irrational and then this is literally the justification that is given for the launch of this war. I mean, that's insane. That is insane. How can we even trying to explain this to normal people is is going to be one of the more difficult projects of this war. And I'm going to ask everybody who's watching this, you know, not don't be annoying, but when people bring it up, try to get into it and really get because the propaganda is going to be unbelievable. Already this morning turning on Fox News and CN, by the way, CNN, not only the AMLC thing, they've got Brett Mcgherk and all of these officials who have all been advocating for regime change. Preemptive strike. preemptive strike. >> Yeah, preemptive strike who are just doing the bidding and printing Pentagon war uh Pentagon press statements. By the way, the Pentagon, Pate Hexath, he's calling this Operation Epic Fury. This is like cosplaying war except it's real life and there are already dozens of people who have been killed. Uh why don't we put up the uh statement from the Iranian state media of a school that was struck? >> Let me Yeah, let me put this one up. This is horrible. Um this school uh girls school it appears was elementary school was uh struck by either the US or Israel. Here they're reporting um at least 40 killed, 48 students injured following the strike on a girl's school in Manab as rescue and recovery efforts continue. So right we live in the type of nation that strikes girls school and do you think they're going to be sad about do you think they're going to apologize for it? Do you think they're going to accept any blame or accountability? Of course not. Of course not. Because we look at what Israel and we look at what the Israelis and the US got away with if the genocide in Gaza. Now literally every level of horror and brutality is on the table. >> Yeah. Uh that was probably the Israelis uh from what I've seen now so far. Uh you know sticking to their long tried andrue uh you know war uh targeted strikes uh that we all know well from what happened in Gaza. And it is just so unbelievable already to watch how this has gone out and what we are watching now so far. I mean I really think again you know despite all of the talk about peace and diplomacy to launch the war in this fashion we have no offramp. It's over. I mean unless there's a literal about face by Donald Trump which I think is very unlikely. The other problem as we saw is that it's very easy to start a war. It's much harder to end a war and that's when you're in control of your own government. Now you have a foreign rogue state which will bomb any country which is in the immediate vicinity and can kick things off into higher gear whenever they want to. um and >> and our ambassador to that country saying that they're, you know, we're down with the greater Israel project if, you know, Israel wants to just fully fulfill their biblical prophecy and take over whatever portions of the neighboring states that they want to. I mean that, you know, apparently is US official policy at this point given that it was stated by the US ambassador that it appears to reflect facts on the ground in terms of Israeli behavior and was never walked back by any element of our regime. And I just want to throw the Epstein angle of this into the mix because you have to look at this and in some senses go it doesn't really add up there. The military didn't want this war. The political people knew that this could be a big problem. I mean, you just look at the polling and you know that it is catastrophic. Now, will Republicans who are Trump supporters, will they come around and suddenly flip and they'll support? Sure. But independents, any sort of swing voter, they are dramatically opposed to this, especially when from the jump, you're saying, "Hey, Americans are probably going to die here. Sorry." Um, so the political piece, the military piece, our allies in the region, they did not want this war. Our broader allies in Europe and Canada, they were not pushing for this. This was just Israel and the Israeli, you know, pro-Israel donors in the US and then Donald Trump who decided that this is the direction that we should go in. And so you have to factor into this, okay, you know, they are not so stupid in this government that they can't see what we do, that this is potentially disastrous, that there's no off-ramp, that we could get dragged in, that it's this massive regional confilration at a time when Trump is already incredibly politically weak. And then so you have to couple that with okay well maybe it really is something that Israel knows about him in the Epstein files. You know we have this ongoing mass cover up. Clearly there are things in there he does not want to come out as evidenced by the fact that they are hiding the files that they are giving Galain Maxwell this cushy treatment. And now I think you have to add another piece of evidence that he has decided to do the thing that is the one line he has always Trump has always been very belligerent right very hawkish. He's not afraid to use the military, but the one thing he seemed to be genuinely concerned about is getting embroiled in a long-term forever war, especially in the Middle East. And now >> add another layer. >> Yeah, go ahead. >> I'll add another layer, Crystal. And I, you know, I've been, it's been a bit difficult to try and navigate this, but I'm just going to come out and tell everybody. I think Donald Trump believes that the Israelis would use a nuclear weapon. I think he believes that they would use a nuclear weapon against Iran or at the very least that they would launch the preemptive war no matter what and they would basically dare America to not defend them. So it could be it's also I genuinely think either some sort of you know either black or strategic blackmail very at the very least and considering how the Israelis have operated in Gaza I think we should believe that if they're going to make those types of threats and you know that's that's something I've been hearing a little bit behind the scenes. has been a bit, you know, difficult uh to actually well, it's been difficult to assess cuz it we talked about it like do we really think that like it just seems so crazy I think as evidenced by what has happened as you just said who launches a preemptive or who launches a war of choice 9 months before the midterm elections of which 80% of Americans are against. That's not normal. Not when you have the entire administration full of people who are on the record who are against war, regime change war with Iran. Something is going on. Something is going on. I personally think there was a nuclear blackmail angle effectively uh that happened some behind the scenes. If you don't believe me, this is a precedent by the way from the Yamapour war and you can go and read a little about that in 1973. uh but I do think it's very important for us to try and assess now how we as our as a democracy we had literally no checks and have no ability to check inside this now because and I and I really mean this now with Congress the Congress is surrendering aside from Roana and if we want we can put his video on because I want to give this guy as much credit as humanly possible him and Thomas Massie who at the very least foresaw who are at least calling, get these guys on the record because John Thun and Chuck Schumer and Mark Warner and all of these other guys, they may talk about how they're against it. They're not. They're against the, you know, they're against the process of which it all went down, but these are the only people who are at least demanding, let's say, if this is a disaster sometime in the future that we can have and hold these people accountable for actually doing this. All right, so let's let's play with Roana. Donald Trump has launched a war on Iran. The Congress must reconvene on Monday to vote on Thomas Massie and my war powers resolution to stop this war. Trump says his goal is to topple the Iranian regime. But the American people are tired of regime change wars that cost us billions of dollars and risk our lives. We don't want to be at war with a country of 90 million people in the Middle East. every member of Congress must go on record today on how they will vote on Thomas Massie in my war powers resolution. >> And you know, they really the um Democratic leadership like the capitulation caucus on the Democratic side, they really pulled some [ __ ] here because this vote was supposed to happen last week and they came to Row and they said, "Oh, well, some people are wavering. It'll go better if we wait till next week." and just happened that that bought Trump enough time to, you know, launch this war alongside Israel on their chosen day, you know, to honor their commitments to destroying AMLC um before this war powers resolution could uh could come down. Now, it's been so Mark Warner, you mentioned Mark Warner. He put out like a really extremely lame statement um that I can put up on the screen to give you a sense of, you know, these are some of the things that we're hearing like from him and from Schumer ahead of time, which was hand ringing and concern trolling over the process here. So, he says um in part, by the president's own words, American heroes may be lost. That alone should have demanded the highest level of scrutiny, deliberation, and accountability. So, not don't do it, just we need some more scrutiny. Yet, the president moved forward without seeking congressional authorization. The Constitution is clear. The decision to take this nation to war rest with Congress. Launching large-scale military operations, particularly in the absence of an imminent threat to the US, raises serious legal and constitutional concerns. Congress must be fully briefed and the administration must come forward with a clear legal justification, a defined end state, and a plan that avoids dragging the US into yet another costly and unnecessary war. So, you know, extremely lame statement there. I will say there are others who have come out who've been much more forceful, um, including people you wouldn't necessarily expect. This is Tim Kaine. He said, um, you know, he's a major proponent of calling back war powers from the executive branch. Has US has President Trump learned nothing from decades of US meddling in Iran and forever wars in the Middle East? Is he too mentally incapacitated to realize we had a diplomatic agreement with Iran that was keeping its nuclear program in check until he ripped it up during the first term? For months, I have raised hell about the fact the American people want lower prices, not more war, especially wars that aren't authorized by Congress as required by the Constitution, and don't have a clear objective. These strikes are a colossal mistake, and I pray they do not cost our sons and daughters in uniform and at embassies throughout the region their lives. The Senate should immediately return to session, vote on my war powers resolution to block the use of US forces in hostilities against Iran. every single senator needs to go on the record about this dangerous, unnecessary, and idiotic action. So, um, you know, you're going to have a real divide in the Democrats. No one is going to, well, except for John Federman has already come out and said he thinks this is great and wonderful and whatever. So, you've got that, but outside of him, you're going to have two camps. You're going to have the camps like Row and like Tim Kaine here who are clearly opposed. And then you're going to have the process handr like Mark Warner. And so, take careful note of who is who. And then also take careful note of how everybody, Democrat or Republican, votes on these war powers resolution because at this point obviously it's too late to stop anything. And let's be honest, even if they voted on this last week, this administration was going to do whatever the [ __ ] they wanted to do anyway. But at the very least, at the very least, we can get some sort of record of who was where, who supported what, because they must be political hell to pay for everyone who was okay with this, who enabled it, and especially for those who actively cheerleaded it. >> Yeah, that's right. I think you're absolutely right, and I think it's unbelievable watching already, you know, some of the scenes. Also, there's some uh chatter from RadioI Israel and multiple other uh Israeli uh news outlets that the Ayatollah Kmeni was, you know, targeted directly. They're saying uh that he was likely injured and they would be shocked if he was not dead. So, you already have major figures in the Iranian regime who are either confirmed dead or who are very likely dead uh who are all right now. But you can see, you know, currently as we're all watching right now, one of the most extraordinary wars of choice now in years from the United States. I mean, I never thought I would sit here and give flowers to George W. Bush for for for manufacturing evidence, for taking it to the UN Security Council, for taking it to Congress and getting Hillary Clinton and all of the other Democrats on the record. And truly, I mean, 90% of the American people were supporting the war with Iraq. We had the cable news. There was no debate. none, zero on this entire thing. Most people are probably just waking up this morning and they had no idea that this was even really on the table. And now, you know, you may know somebody, I certainly do, people who are deployed now in the Gulf, people who are deployed on these carrier strike groups, people who are served in the United States military, their lives are at risk. Not my words, the president's words, their lives are at risk. They may be uh they may be lost, but it is what it is. Is basically what he is saying now currently. Look, there's going to be a lot of propaganda over the years or over the it is going to be years unfortunately most likely now in this there's going to be a lot of propaganda over the years I think on this conflict. uh don't just you know let's remember Iraq mission accomplished only took three weeks there will be many claims from this administration they will deride those of us who spoke out against it as panicans they will manufacture victories they will try to portray it as something that worked in the immediate term let us all remember Iraq Syria li Libya I mean I can't even think on the off the top of my head all of the the interventions that we have where it plays out that way every single time. Afghanistan, we brought democracy to Afghanistan, it all worked out. They even had elections, Crystal. It was unbelievable. It was beautiful. People were voting. Hammed Carzi was in power for years. We thought it was a settled matter. And then what happened? What happened? So, do not let these people just gaslight you with immediate declarations of victory or that it's all going to work out. We don't know yet the consequences. It will take many many years to really grapple. All we can really hope for, you know, in the immediate term is like less loss of life. I don't see how it's possible. I really don't. Not whenever you're going to declare from the immediate term that this is it. And when you have the Israelis uh who are there who are ready to bomb literally, you know, anything in sight uh in order to keep the war as brutal as possible because they don't want, you know, any element of the Iranian regime to come to power. their nightmare. You know, this is another thing I think we should explain. The best case scenario, let's say, for how this would all work out would be some sort of IRGC commander who says, "Fine, I'll make a deal with you. I've seized control." Trump declares victory. Do you think Israel is going to let that happen? No. Right. They're going to want the like they want the full monty. They want the fullon palavy restoring of the monarchy, which many of the countries not going to accept. that basically guarantees civil war from the point that we are the point we're at regardless of whether we come in or not with boots on the ground or who even knows with loss of life in other spheres. >> Well, and let's talk about a little bit why the Israelis feel that it's this is now or never for their moment to permanently establish their regional hegemony and you know take out their longtime nemesis Iran and make sure they can never achieve the the nuclear weapons or any sort of balance in the region. Well, Israel has they've got a lot of issues. You know, there's a poll that just came out that showed for the first time ever on net, the American people have more sympathy for the Palestinians than the Israelis. If you'd have told me that 5 years ago, I would have told you to get your head examined. It is over for them in terms of a blank check. The American people are done. There was some movement with Republicans, but predominantly with independents and Democrats. Overwhelmingly they are disgusted by our enabling of this rogue genocidal regime and it is highly likely in 2028 you are going to get a president who has a very different view of things and is going to take a very different approach. At the same time they are staring down a very difficult demographic future. They've experienced significant brain drain of the more secular and highly educated of their citizens who have left the country. I'm sure this, you know, new war is probably not going to help them out on that front. And you have increasingly the population made up of hardight and more orthodox families who have large numbers of children but don't want to work, don't want to fight in the military and want to just benefit from Israel's generous social safety net. So the math doesn't math over a long period of time. That's why both from a demographic perspective and also a political perspective in the US most importantly but around the world globally you know their reputation is in the toilet that's why they feel like now is the time we have to go for broke because this is very risky for them too I mean they're going to take damage right this is going to be this requires yeah they already have this requires a significant amount of risk takingaking so you might ask yourself well why does Israel want this right now at this time as well that is the reason because they can see the writing on the wall that they are at the peak of their strength right now and things are only going to be downhill from here and that the the very existence of the state and like their strength is also very much on the line. So, you know, you've got that and then you've got whatever is going on with Trump, you know, whether it's the the nuclear blackmail, the Epstein thing, you know, people, you said it's called that's being called Operation Epic Fury. I see people saying, "Let's call it Operation Epstein Fury," which I absolutely think we should all be doing because I do think that those two things are directly connected and all of the hundreds of millions of dollars that flowed into his campaign from pro-Zionist sources. Then you've got the media array. You know, we just got the news about the um you know, the Paramount deal. So now you have the Ellison's have not only CBS, CNN, HBO, Tik Tok, just this mass media empire that is not only proTrump, but pro-Zionist to do their best to manufacture consent. Not that I think that's entirely going to work on the American people. But those are all the chips that they've kind of got in play to make this, you know, final final disastrous insane move on the chessboard, >> right? Yeah. Yeah, I mean just summarizing now, obviously we will be covering this now for years to come. Uh I hope we were able to add a little bit of some context to the things that you're all watching play out. This is unfortunately going to be very long. This will be a week's long campaign just in the immediate future. Then we will have to see where things shake out. There's untold amounts of death and destruction for the people of Iran. They are now fully going to be at the mercy of the western and the regional powers. Uh they will also probably be at the mercy of a regime which is fighting for its life. The Iranian foreign minister is on television right now Crystal as you and I are speaking. He has said as far as he knows the Ayatollah is alive. He is also saying that um he doesn't know why the United States insists on diplomacy and then attacks the other party in the middle of their negotiations. He says we lost a few commanders uh but that's fine. we know how to fight from here. Echoing some of the things I was saying earlier, they planned basically uh to be for a lot of decapitation and effectively it's built in and now they have no choice uh but to go all out. What all out means in their capabilities obviously we don't know >> but there's a lot of lives at risk on American service members too. >> I really did not think I would live to see it. >> A lot of lives, a lot of chaos, you know. I mean kind of everything is really on the line right now. Um, you've opened up an extraordinary, you know, an extraordinarily dangerous Pandora's box and now we all just have to sit back and and see where the hell this this takes us. Um, I'm going to be interviewing uh Dr. Tree to Parcy in a little while. So, pay attention for, you know, look out for that interview later today and we're going to continue to stay on top of this as things develop. Um, also just, you know, a caveat on everything that all the elements that we put up. Obviously this is a very fastmoving situation and um you know it can be difficult to ascertain the you know veracity of all the things that are unfolding in your timeline on a momentto moment moment basis which is also you know reality check for you guys out there while you're monitoring the situations just remember that there's always things that come out that turn out to be untrue later on. So just keep that in mind as you're processing all of this information. Keep in mind propaganda, AI, social media disinformation from the Iranians, from the Israelis, from the United States. Uh keep in mind, try to fact check uh some of these things. It's going to mean immensely difficult time ahead uh for all of us. I'm grateful to be doing the show with you. I hope we can try and help people understand the world. It's a bad time, but uh we'll see you all as soon as probably very soon, unfortunately.
